Flyte Getting started: Start with a brand new repo! (#1181)
flyteorg/flyte: rsts/getting_started.rst

      .. prompt:: text

         Running my_wf() hello world

#. Next, install :std:ref:`flytectl`. ``Flytectl`` is a commandline interface for Flyte.

   .. tabs::

      .. tab:: OSX

        .. prompt:: bash $

           brew install flyteorg/homebrew-tap/flytectl

        *Upgrade* existing installation using the following command:

        .. prompt:: bash $

           brew upgrade flytectl

      .. tab:: Other Operating systems

        .. prompt:: bash $

            curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lyft/flytectl/master/install.sh | bash

   **Test** if Flytectl is installed correctly (your Flytectl version should be > 0.2.0) using the following command:

   .. prompt:: bash $

      flytectl version

#. Flyte can be deployed locally using a single Docker container — we refer to this as the ``flyte-sandbox`` environment. You can also run this getting started against a hosted or pre-provisioned environment.

   .. tabs::

      .. tab:: Start a new sandbox cluster

        .. tip:: Want to dive under the hood into flyte-sandbox, refer to the guide `here<>`_.

        .. prompt:: bash $

           flytectl sandbox start --sourcesPath <full-path-to-myflyteapp>

> 

Reviewer: Replace sourcesPath flag to `--source`.

            #. *Recommended:* Use the bundled `./docker_build_and_tag.sh`. It will automatically build the local Dockerfile, name it and tag it with the current git-SHA. This helps in achieving GitOps style workflows.

       .. tab:: Remote Flyte Cluster

           If you are using a remote Flyte cluster, then you need to build your container and push it to a registry that is accessible by the Flyte Kubernetes cluster.

           .. prompt:: bash $

               docker build . --tag registry/repo:version
               docker push registry/repo:version

#. Next, package the workflow using the ``pyflyte`` cli bundled with Flytekit and upload it to the Flyte backend. Note that the image is the same as the one built in the previous step.

   .. prompt:: bash (venv)$

      pyflyte --pkgs myapp.workflows package --image myapp:v1

#. Upload this package to the Flyte backend. We refer to this as ``registration``.

   .. prompt:: bash $

      flytectl register files -p flytesnacks -d development -a flyte-package.tgz  -v v1

#. Finally, visualize the registered workflow.

   .. prompt:: bash $

>       flytectl get workflows -p flytesnacks -d development myapp.workflows.example.my_wf -o doturl

Reviewer: It should be `flytectl get workflows -p flytesnacks -d development myapp.workflows.example.hello_world --version=v1 -o doturl`

Author: no it is my_wf https://github.com/flyteorg/flytekit-python-template/blob/main/myapp/workflows/example.py#L44

.. _getting-started-execute:

3. Execute on Flyte
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Use FlyteConsole to launch an execution and keep tabs on the window! 

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flyteorg/flyte/static-resources/img/flytesnacks/tutorial/exercise.gif
    :alt: A quick visual tour for launching a workflow and checking the outputs when they're done.

**Alternatively, you can execute using the command line.** 

Launch and monitor from CLI using Flytectl.
More details can be found `here <https://docs.flyte.org/projects/flytectl/en/stable/gen/flytectl_create_execution.html>`__.

#. Generate an execution spec file.

   .. prompt:: bash $

>       flytectl get launchplan -p flytesnacks -d development myapp.workflows.example.my_wf --execFile exec_spec.yaml

Reviewer: same here `myapp.workflows.example.hello_world`

   .. tabs::

       .. tab:: Flyte Sandbox

           Since ``flyte-sandbox`` runs locally in a docker container, you do not need to push the docker image. You can combine the build and push step by simply building the image inside the Flyte-sandbox container. This can be done using the following command:

           .. prompt::

               flytectl sandbox exec -- docker build . --tag "myapp:v1"

           .. tip::
            #. Why are we not pushing the docker image? Want to understand the details —— refer to guide `here <>`_
            #. *Recommended:* Use the bundled `./docker_build_and_tag.sh`. It will automatically build the local Dockerfile, name it and tag it with the current git-SHA. This helps in achieving GitOps style workflows.

       .. tab:: Remote Flyte Cluster

           If you are using a remote Flyte cluster, then you need to build your container and push it to a registry that is accessible by the Flyte Kubernetes cluster.

           .. prompt::

               docker build . --tag registry/repo:version
               docker push registry/repo:version

> #. Now that the container is built let's provide this information to the Flyte backend, for which you have to package the workflow using the ``pyflyte`` cli bundled with Flytekit. Also, note that the image is the same as the one built in the previous step. ::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Let's package package the workflow using the ``pyflyte`` cli bundled with Flytekit and upload it to the Flyte backend. Note that the image is the same as the one built in the previous step. ::
```

    pyflyte --pkgs myapp.workflows package --image myapp:v1

#. Let's now upload this package to the Flyte backend. We refer to this as ``registration``. ::

    flytectl register files -p flytesnacks -d development -a flyte-package.tgz  -v v1

#. Visualize the registered workflow. ::

>     flytectl get workflows -p flytesnacks -d development myapp.workflows.example.my_wf -o doturl

Reviewer 2: should we embed an image here of what should render on the commandline?

.. _getting-started-execute:

Execute on Flyte
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Finally, use FlyteConsole to launch an execution and keep tabs on the window! 

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flyteorg/flyte/static-resources/img/flytesnacks/tutorial/exercise.gif
    :alt: A quick visual tour for launching a workflow and checking the outputs when they're done.

> **Alternatively,** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Execute using the command line** 
```

> Launch and monitor from CLI using flytectl. This is how you will have to proceed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Launch and monitor from CLI using flytectl. 
```

More details can be found `here <https://docs.flyte.org/projects/flytectl/en/stable/gen/flytectl_create_execution.html>`__

> #. Generate execution spec file. ::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Generate an execution spec file. ::
```

    flytectl get launchplan -p flytesnacks -d development myapp.workflows.example.my_wf  --execFile exec_spec.yaml

> #. Update the input spec file for arguments to the workflow. ::

Reviewer 2: why do we call it input spec file here but exec spec file elsewhere?

            ....
            inputs:
              name: "adam"
            ....

> #. Create execution using the exec spec file. ::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Create an execution using the exec spec file. ::
```

    flytectl create execution -p flytesnacks -d development --execFile exec_spec.yaml

#. Monitor the execution by providing the execution id from create command. ::

    flytectl get execution -p flytesnacks -d development <execid>

> For the Explorers

Reviewer 2: +1 what @cosmicBboy said, not a fan of this given its ambiguity

*****************

> If you're interested in poking around the various ways to make running code on Flyte comfortable, look further.

Reviewer 2: What does comfortable even mean here? It's not immediately obvious what the purpose of the subsequent section is from this introduction & header

                   region: <replace> # Example: us-east-2
                 container: <replace> # Example my-bucket. Flyte k8s cluster / service account for execution should have read access to this bucket

       .. tab:: GCS Configuration

           .. code-block:: yaml

               admin:
                 # For GRPC endpoints you might want to use dns:///flyte.myexample.com
                 endpoint: dns:///<replace-me>
                 authType: Pkce # if using authentication or just drop this. If insecure set insecure: True
               storage:
                 kind: google
                 config:
                   json: ""
                   project_id: <replace-me> # TODO: replace <project-id> with the GCP project ID
                   scopes: https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_write
                 container: <replace> # Example my-bucket. Flyte k8s cluster / service account for execution should have access to this bucket

       .. tab:: Others

               For other supported storage backends like Oracle, Azure, etc., refer to the configuration structure `here <https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/flyteorg/flytestdlib/storage#Config>`__.

> #. Finally, visit `the sandbox console <http://localhost:30081/console/projects/flytesnacks/domains/development/workflows/myapp.workflows.example.my_wf>`__, click launch, and give your name as the input. Let the magic happen!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Finally, visit `the sandbox console <http://localhost:30081/console/projects/flytesnacks/domains/development/workflows/myapp.workflows.example.my_wf>`__, click launch, and give your name as the input.
```

Getting started
---------------

.. rubric:: Estimated time to complete: 10 minutes.

Prerequisites
***************

Make sure you have `docker <https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/>`__ , `git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ and ``python > 3.6`` installed.

.. caution::

    We have not yet tested this flow on a Windows machine.

> Code -> deploy -> iterate

Reviewer 2: can we maybe change this? 😬

Author: yes

*************************************

Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Install Flyte's python SDK - `flytekit <https://pypi.org/project/flytekit/>`_ (recommended in a virtual environment) and clone the `flytekit-python-template <https://github.com/flyteorg/flytekit-python-template>`_ repo.

   .. prompt::

>      pip install flytekit

Author: its not a standardized thing

>      pip install flytekit

Reviewer 2: gotcha 👍

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Open ``example.py`` in your favorite editor.

   .. code-block::

       myapp/workflows/example.py

   .. dropdown:: myapp/workflows/example.py

      .. rli:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flyteorg/flytekit-python-template/simplify-template/myapp/workflows/example.py
         :language: python

#. Add ``name: str`` as an argument to both ``my_wf`` and ``say_hello`` functions. Then update the body of ``say_hello`` to consume that argument.

   .. code-block:: python

     @task
     def say_hello(name: str) -> str:
         return f"hello world, {name}"

   .. code-block:: python

     @workflow
     def my_wf(name: str) -> str:
         res = say_hello(name=name)
         return res

#. Update the simple test at the bottom of the file to pass in a name. E.g.

   .. code-block:: python

     print(f"Running my_wf(name='adam') {my_wf(name='adam')}")

#. When you run this file locally, it should output ``hello world, adam``. Run this command in your terminal:

   .. prompt::

     python myapp/workflows/example.py

   .. dropdown:: Expected output

       .. prompt::

            Running my_wf(name='adam') hello world, adam

> Fast: Deploy your application quickly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fast: Deploy your workflow quickly
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> #. To deploy this workflow to the Flyte cluster (sandbox), you can repeat the previously explained :ref:`getting-started-standard`. But, Flyte provides a faster way to iterate on your workflows. Since you have not really updated any of the dependencies in your requirements file, it is possible to push just the code to Flyte backend, without really re-building the entire docker container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. To deploy this workflow to the Flyte cluster (sandbox), you can repeat the steps previously covered in :ref:`getting-started-standard`.  Flyte provides a faster way to iterate on your workflows. Since you have not updated any of the dependencies in your requirements file, it is possible to push just the code to Flyte backend, without having to re-build the entire docker container.
```

   .. prompt::

       pyflyte --pkgs myapp.workflows package --image myapp:v1 --fast --force

   .. note::

>      Note the ``--fast`` flag. This will take the code from your local machine and provide it for ``execution`` without having to build the container and push it. The ``--force`` flag allows overriding your previously created package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     Note the ``--fast`` flag. This will take the code from your local machine and provide it for execution without having to build the container and push it. The ``--force`` flag allows overriding your previously created package.
```

   .. caution::

>      The ``fast`` registration method can only be used if you do not modify any requirements (re-use existing environment). But, if you add a dependency to your requirements file / env you have to follow the :ref:`getting-started-standard` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     The ``fast`` registration method can only be used if you do not modify any requirements (that is, you re-use an existing environment). But, if you add a dependency to your requirements file or env you have to follow the :ref:`getting-started-standard` method.
```

> #. The code can now be deployed using flytectl similar to done previously. ``flytectl`` automatically guesses that the package is for ``fast`` registration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. The code can now be deployed using flytectl similar to what we've done previously. ``flytectl`` automatically understands that the package is for ``fast`` registration.
```

>    Note: For this to work, a new ``storage`` block has to be added to the flytectl configuration with appropriate permissions at runtime. The Storage block configures flytectl to write to a specific ``S3 / GCS bucket``. If using sandbox, this is automatically configured by flytectl (so you can skip). But, take a note for future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Note: For this to work, a new ``storage`` block has to be added to the flytectl configuration with appropriate permissions at runtime. The storage block configures flytectl to write to a specific ``S3 / GCS bucket``. If you're using sandbox, this is automatically configured by flytectl so you can skip this for now but do take a note for the future.
```

           Automatically configured for you by ``flytectl sandbox`` command

           .. code-block:: yaml

               admin:
                 # For GRPC endpoints you might want to use dns:///flyte.myexample.com
                 endpoint: dns:///localhost:30081
                 insecure: true
               storage:
                 connection:
                   access-key: minio
                   auth-type: accesskey
                   disable-ssl: true
                   endpoint: http://localhost:30084
                   region: my-region-here
                   secret-key: miniostorage
                 container: my-s3-bucket
                 type: minio

       .. tab:: S3 Configuration

           .. code-block:: yaml

               admin:
                 # For GRPC endpoints you might want to use dns:///flyte.myexample.com
                 endpoint: dns:///<replace-me>
                 authType: Pkce # if using authentication or just drop this. If insecure set insecure: True
               storage:
                 kind: s3
                 config:
                   auth_type: iam
                   region: <replace> # Example: us-east-2

>                  container: <replace> # Example my-bucket. Flyte k8s cluster / service account for execution should have access to this bucket

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                 container: <replace> # Example my-bucket. Flyte k8s cluster / service account for execution should have read access to this bucket
```

       .. tab:: GCS Configuration

           .. code-block:: yaml

               admin:
                 # For GRPC endpoints you might want to use dns:///flyte.myexample.com
                 endpoint: dns:///<replace-me>
                 authType: Pkce # if using authentication or just drop this. If insecure set insecure: True
               storage:
                 kind: google
                 config:
                   json: ""
                   project_id: <replace-me> # TODO: replace <project-id> with the GCP project ID
                   scopes: https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_write
                 container: <replace> # Example my-bucket. Flyte k8s cluster / service account for execution should have access to this bucket

       .. tab:: Others

               For other supported storage backends like Oracle, Azure etc refer to Configuration structure `here <https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/flyteorg/flytestdlib/storage#Config>`_

> #. Visit `the console for sandbox <http://localhost:30081/console/projects/flytesnacks/domains/development/workflows/myapp.workflows.example.my_wf>`__, click launch, and enter your name as the input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Visit `sandbox console <http://localhost:30081/console/projects/flytesnacks/domains/development/workflows/myapp.workflows.example.my_wf>`__, click launch, and enter your name as the input.
```

Getting started
---------------

.. rubric:: Estimated time to complete: 10 minutes.

Prerequisites
***************

Make sure you have `docker <https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/>`__ , `git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ and ``python > 3.6`` installed.

.. caution::

    We have not yet tested this flow on a Windows machine.

Build -> Deploy -> Iterate mechanics

> *************************************

Reviewer 3: I think we'd be better served with a full sentence here, e.g.

```
This guide will quickly take you through the mechanics of building, deploying, and iterating on Flyte tasks and workflows
```

Author: +1

.. rubric:: Estimated time to complete: 3 minutes.

Prerequisites
***************

Make sure you have `docker <https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/>`__ , `git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ and ``python > 3.6`` installed.

Steps
*****

> #. First install the Flyte's python SDK - `flytekit<https://pypi.org/project/flytekit/>`_ (maybe in a virtual environment) and clone the `flytekit-python-template <https://github.com/flyteorg/flytekit-python-template>`_ repo

Author: done

>     .. tip:: Branch ``simplify-template`` - ``git checkout simplify-template`` till we merge it

Author: when @pmahindrakar-oss  and @evalsocket were test driving

    .. prompt::

      pip install flytekit
      git clone git@github.com:flyteorg/flytekit-python-template.git myflyteapp

>       cd myflyteapp

Author: done

#. The repo comes with a sample workflow, which can be found under ``myapp/workflows/example.py``. The structure below shows the most important files and how a typical flyteapp should be laid out.

    .. raw:: html

       <details>

>        <summary><a>Important files a typical flyteapp should have</a></summary>

Author: will do
